---
layout: archive
title: "Publications"
permalink: /publications/
author_profile: true
---
+ [Arxiv'24] **A Survey on Efficient Inference for Large Language Models**. Zixuan Zhou, Xuefei Ning, Ke Hong, Tianyu Fu, Jiaming Xu, Shiyao Li, Yuming Lou, **Luning Wang**, Zhihang Yuan, Xiuhong Li, Shengen Yan, Guohao Dai, Xiao-Ping Zhang, Yuhan Dong, Yu Wang. <a href='https://arxiv.org/pdf/2404.14294.pdf'>[pdf]</a>

  **Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs) have attracted extensive attention due to their remarkable performance across various tasks. However, the substantial computational and memory requirements of LLM inference pose challenges for deployment in resource-constrained scenarios. Efforts within the field have been directed towards developing techniques aimed at enhancing the efficiency of LLM inference. This paper presents a comprehensive survey of the existing literature on efficient LLM inference. We start by analyzing the primary causes of the inefficient LLM inference, i.e., the large model size, the quadratic-complexity attention operation, and the auto-regressive decoding approach. Then, we introduce a comprehensive taxonomy that organizes the current literature into data-level, model-level, and system-level optimization. Moreover, the paper includes comparative experiments on representative methods within critical sub-fields to provide quantitative insights. Last but not least, we provide some knowledge summary and discuss future research directions.

 
+ [ICML 2024] **Evaluating Quantized Large Language Models**. Shiyao Li, Xuefei Ning, **Luning Wang**, Tengxuan Liu, Xiangsheng Shi, Shengen Yan, Guohao Dai, Huazhong Yang, Yu Wang. <a href='https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.18158'>[pdf]</a> <a href='https://github.com/thu-nics/qllm-eval/tree/main'>[github]</a>

  **Abstract:** Post-training quantization (PTQ) has emerged as a promising technique to reduce the cost of large language models (LLMs). Specifically, PTQ can effectively mitigate memory consumption and reduce computational overhead in LLMs. To meet the requirements of both high efficiency and performance across diverse scenarios, a comprehensive evaluation of quantized LLMs is essential to guide the selection of quantization methods. This paper presents a thorough evaluation of these factors by evaluating the effect of PTQ on Weight, Activation, and KV Cache on 11 model families, including OPT, LLaMA2, Falcon, Bloomz, Mistral, ChatGLM, Vicuna, LongChat, StableLM, Gemma, and Mamba, with parameters ranging from 125M to 180B. The evaluation encompasses five types of tasks: basic NLP, emergent ability, trustworthiness, dialogue, and long-context tasks. Moreover, we also evaluate the state-of-the-art (SOTA) quantization methods to demonstrate their applicability. Based on the extensive experiments, we systematically summarize the effect of quantization, provide recommendations to apply quantization techniques, and point out future directions.


+ [ENLSP NeurIPS Workshop 2023] **LLM-MQ: Mixed-precision Quantization for Efficient LLM Deployment**. Shiyao Li, Xuefei Ning, Ke Hong, Tengxuan Liu, **Luning Wang**, Xiuhong Li, Kai Zhong, Guohao Dai, Huazhong Yang, Yu Wang. [<a href='https://docs.google.com/viewer?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wln20/wln20.github.io/master/files/LLM_MQ.pdf'>pdf</a>] [<a href='https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wln20/wln20.github.io/master/files/LLM-MQ-poster.png'>poster</a>]

  **Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated impressive performance across various tasks. Nevertheless, deploying LLMs on edge devices presents significant challenges, primarily due to their substantial model size (e.g., over 10 billion parameters). Low-precision quantization is a promising way to reduce the memory requirement of LLMs. However, directly applying ultra-low-bit quantization to LLMs leads to significant performance degradation and fails to meet a specific weight memory budget. In this paper, we propose LLM-MQ, a Mixed-precision Quantization method, to address the above issues. Our method mainly contains three folds: (1) We propose a sparse outlier protection strategy for low-precision layers by protecting the outliers in FP16 format to maintain the performance. (2) We propose sensitivity-based precision allocation to assign the proper bit-width for each layer within the given budget for weight memory based on their first-order information and quantization error. (3) We develop efficient CUDA core kernels to accelerate mix-precision LLMs by fusing the dequantization and General Matrix-Vector Multiplication (GEMV). With comparable performance on various tasks, LLM-MQ can flexibly quantize LLMs that meet the given budget for weight memory. On NVIDIA T4 GPU, we achieve up to 1.6× end-to-end speedup compared to the pytorch FP16 baseline.
  

  
